>> Kevin Powell: So, in our Figma design,
we have two sections colors and
typography that are just
taking all of the styles and
variables that are in the Figma file and
making them easy for us to see.
You also have in Markdown files the values
of all of these if you just wanna copy and
paste a little bit
faster in creating them.
But whenever we have these types of
things, it's usually a really good sign
that you should just make some
custom properties in your own CSS.
Just cuz it means these are the colors,
the font sizes, and
other things that are gonna be reused
throughout your entire project.
Again, we're thinking big picture,
we're setting things up for
a little bit of a success.
I will say, I call this a design system,
anybody who's watching this right now,
who does design system work,
is going that's not a design system.
This is a very simplistic
version of one but
it's the type of a very simple version.
But if you were in a larger design system
a lot of the same things we're talking
about today will apply, but it just would
take a lot more work to set up properly.
So we're gonna keep it with a very simple
design system setting up through custom
properties.
So you might in the real world run into
much more robust versions than what we're
looking at in today's one.
The other thing is, a lot of the time
if you are working in a company and
they do have a much more
robust design system,
you'll be set up working
with what they have.
But a lot of the time you'll have a client
throwing you a design file they happen to
get from a designer somewhere
that has nothing, or
you'll get a file similar to this one.
So it really depends on the environment
you're working and everything else.
But I wanna look at, when you are thrown
into this type of one, how you can work,
cuz again, the lessons will apply
on larger projects as well.
And specifically for the colors in
this one, what I wanna look at is
purposely did it in ways that I run into
a lot when I run into the real world.
So if we go and
look at the Figma file actually,
it's in the top left, if you do go in
there you can open the JPEG as well.
If you do come in and take a look at
things, the naming of them is terrible.
So we have a brown, that zoomed out
more than I planned on it, we have like,
brown-1, brown-2, brown-3,
brown-4, brown-5.
Then we have a primary color,
then we have accent dark,
accent light, we have a gray, a white,
a red, a burnt orange, a teal.
So the naming is a little bit
inconsistent along the way,
the typography is a lot better.
But one thing to notice with
the typography that's important is
we have the mobile sizes here and
the font families that are being used.
There is the title one here that
only has one font size, and
if we come take a look at the desktop
version, there's two different ones.
And that's cuz in our hero section we have
the really big font at the top that has
two different font sizes.
But on mobile that it's actually
one size being used for
both, we'll look at how we can tackle
that type of thing in a little bit.
But we're gonna start
with the colors first,
just cuz I wanna talk a little bit
about how I'm gonna be naming things.
And if you are in Figma like we are now,
and my UI is super small at the moment,
I'm not sure it's smaller
than it usually is,
maybe I can zoom in,
nope, that's interesting.
But when you're in there, again,
you can control click or in this case I am
actually giving you the hex codes and
the HSL and everything else that's here.
On the side menu you'll
also see the color and
you can get values from
those areas as well.
Yeah, but
the easiest might be just coming in,
grabbing either the hex codes or
grabbing the HSL values.
Whichever one you wanna work in, and
VS code makes it easy to
switch between them as well.
Really fast if you wanna know more about
Figma as well front end masters does have
a course on Figma that kind covers it all.
So if you're poking around in here,
you're not super comfortable,
but you do wanna learn more about it,
you can check out that course and
learn a bit more about how Figma works.
But for today,
we don't need to get too much other than
the specific values that are in here.
So, how can we do it?
Well, we'll copy this color right here,
just to start with, and
I'm gonna copy that this is a choice
you're actually gonna have to make too,
when you start coming in
with your custom properties.
I asked people what they like to do, and
I got varying responses, some with layers.
Some people like having a layer for
root or to be your custom,
even custom props, something like that.
If you wanna separate those, you
definitely can name it whatever you would
like to name it, I have the habit of
just including it within my base styles.
We're gonna run into some weird syntax
highlighting issues in VS code when we
do this that you'll see
a little bit later.
But for now, I'm just gonna throw it in my
base styles, just cause it's my own habit.
But definitely if you think that deserves
its own layer you could put it in there.
We're not gonna run into specificity
issues with the custom properties,
so it's whatever you would like.
And how I like to name my colors,
when I don't have a color
system that exists already.
So personal project that you're doing or
you have a disaster of a design file now
where the names are really inconsistent.
My main thing is I start with a clr for
color, I also will see after,
whoops, that's not what I wanted.
I also have a prefix ff for
font family, fs for font size,
anything like that, just cause it
makes it a little bit easier, and
we'll see different ways that makes
our life easier within VS Code.
I put the name, so in this case,
we'll stick with brown,
we're gonna come in with the different
types of names you can also have.
Yeah, anyway, we'll come in with
the different types of names we
can have in a little bit, but
when you have a color brown like this.
The system we were just looking at in
Figma, we had brown-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, but
then we have a primary light.
We have the primary dark and other things,
it's nice to have a consistent naming
system and consistent numbering system.
I tend to do my colors all based off
of 500, with 500 being my quote,
unquote, middle ground one, and
then I would have a lighter version.
Would be a clr-brown-400,
could be the slightly lighter one,
and then a clr-brown-600,
would be a darker one.
The reason I use 500 for my middle ground
is because that gives me 4,3,2,1 going up,
and then a 6,7,8,9 going down, so I end
up with an equal amount on both sides.
I also don't do 1,2,3,4,5,
which could definitely work,
I know a lot of people who work that way.
But if ever you get a new color added,
it's easy to come in here and
do a clr-brown-450, and squeeze
an extra one in there if you have to.
It's not gonna happen often,
but you never know, so
I like doing it with my
numbering like that.
The one weird thing that I do though
is I look at, if we come back to here,
with all these browns that I have,
I don't have a light brown.
I don't want this to be my middle brown,
cuz in my mind,
if new colors were added to this site.
Or new browns were added, they'd
probably be lighter than this one, and
this would probably be my darkest
one all the way over here.
So if I grab this one,
I'd actually have that
darkest one as my --clr-brown-900.
And I would go from there, the other thing
is, I do like having all my colors in HSL.
It's just my own habit,
cuz then it makes it easy for
me to adjust things if ever I have to.
In VS code, if you hover over the little
color blocks that should automatically be
coming in,
it shows you get a color picker.
But if you click on
the hex code at the top,
it will change it and
cycle through the different color modes so
you can switch things to the HSL
really easily if you want to.
For this, it's really a little bit of
an approach to going through them,
I was nice to you all.
And if you come into the lesson page,
I did provide the colors I'll be
using with the names I'll be using.
If you do wanna copy and paste them
instead of having to get each one directly
from Figma, it's good to know
how to get them from Figma.
But yeah, just to speed everybody up, I
think that's one of those things we're not
learning much by copying and
pasting 15 values over.
So if you do wanna grab them from
the course page, you can do that,
and just paste them in right there.
The one thing you'll notice
is I did do a white here,
you could also do a I
often call these neutral.
So neutral 100, and
my white is often a neutral 000, but
the naming here could change
depending on how you wanna set it up.